How can we solve that problem that we here need to find a specific meal and we can't really use our
selector here in the navigation options.
No there are two possible fixes fixed number one is to be again used to good old parents to communicate
between component and navigation options.
As I showed it in a navigation module here in the component we are loading our meal self chorus here.
We can use props navigation set parents and now set the parents to a new value here and now we can use
set parents to forward the selected meal or its title to the header and whatever you set here is paradise
by the way will be merged with the existing parents so this will not override them so you'll not override
your meal ideas which you're retrieving here that will still be there you're just adding something new
you're only overwriting a param if it already exists in the parents.
So here we could add the meal title key and set this to selected meal.
Title but this means that I sent these parents to my header when does component render is in the end
now since this will change props we would typically end up in an infinite loop.
So to break this we'll use use effect here.
As I showed it in the navigation module and actually do that instead of use a fact.
So here we can use use fact
and as a dependency I'll specify an empty array for now and then set param here instead of the use affect
function.
And I won't have an empty array here instead my dependency here is my selected meal.
When that changes I want to forward the new information to the header now we'll see if that works.
Let's go to the header.
And there we can now retrieve that form from the parameters.
So here I have my meal title.
I can get this with navigation data dot navigation get param meal pile.
That was the name I chose when setting the parents
now with the meal titles selected here.
We can set header title to the meal title and comment this line out because it won't work any ways.
And let's give this a try.
Let's save this and go to the detail page and watch this works.
You'll see a problem when it's loads initially there is no title and this only pops in.
After a while.
So only after it is fully loaded we see that title pop in.
Which isn't too beautiful.
And the reason for Dad simply is that our logic here works but since he was in fact runs after the component
has been rendered for the first time we wait for the component to render for the first time until we
send the parents to the title and that means that when this transition is still playing and the rendering
hasn't been fully finished we're not really showing that title.
That's why does might not be the optimal solution here.
And I will comment this out a better solution here as cheap as it might sound.
But there's also a solution which you can often use instead you simply forward the title which will
need here from inside the component you're coming from so that you loaded when you are in the component
that will go to this component and you send it to this component before it's loaded.
So let's send the data in advance and where it coming from even add to Favorites screen or to category
meal screen there we're in the end tapping item in the middle list and in both items and both components
favorite screen and category meal screen we are using me a list which is good because that means we
can go to meal list here and there we have this navigate action and now simply besides passing the meal
ideas would be good if we hear already passed the meal title because here we have it available right
item data item title that's our title of the meal by simply supplying it here we solve all the problems
we have on the other screen so that's definitely the approach we want to use here.
So by setting that param here on the component where we triggered a navigation action to the meal detail
page we fixed this issue because now you see the title is there right from the start and we have no
problem at all there and the same of course also on Android if we give it a try there my emulator is
just a bit slow but you can generally see it there as well so that is how we can work with data in the
header when we needed from redux and with that we have a solid first state we're able to use our redux
data what we're not really able to do is change it.
So that's the next step we want to add some logic so that we can change to data that we can mark favorites
and that we can filter our data.